[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A new discovery
from ancient Egypt.
More than 100 tombs found from
the time before the pharaohs.
This is Gaia News.
Egyptian archeologists have
unearthed 110 burial tombs
at an ancient site in
a Nile Delta province.
This new find includes
68 tombs dating
to the pre-Dynastic period
from 6000 to 3150 BC,
as well as five oval shaped
tombs from the Naqada III
period that spanned from
around 3200 to 3000 BC,
and 37 rectangular graves from
the Second Intermediate Period
when the Hyksos people
ruled ancient Egypt.
Archeologists also found human
remains of adults and children
and pottery in the graves.
Archeologists make significant
findings around the world.
What makes this one stand out?
Jack Cary, researcher and
author of Paranormal Planet.
>> Well, in this particular
find, it's one of a kind.
It's the first time they've
found a compilation of tomb
stretching this wide
across an expanse of time.
It's going to change the
Egyptian history books
and give the scholars
something to study and talk
about for quite a while.
Because when you have
the collision of two
cultures and one always
affects the other, usually
in the belief system arena
and the idea of the afterlife
in these religious beliefs.
And here, you're getting an
example of three different time
eras that were
basically interrupted
by a foreign people.
So this gives them all
kinds of different aspects
to look at as far as how
these cultures ended up
colliding and then how
much of an element one
took from the other as
they've moved forward in time.
>> Most of the tombs were oval.
And some, during the Hyksos
period, were rectangular.
What do the shapes
of the tombs mean?
>> The significance of the
different shapes of the tombs
that were discovered-- some
oval, some rectangular--
provides insight into the
changing belief systems of what
happens in the afterlife.
You see a direct correspondence
between funerary ceremonies
and that belief.
And here, it looks like
in the oval-shaped tomb,
they were trying to reproduce
like the mother's womb.
The bodies were laid
on their left side
with their heads pointed
west in a fetal position.
That's the place of the
setting sun taking them down
into the underworld
for their rebirth.
And the rectangular tombs
show a change in that.
And that change is probably
very, very important
to Egyptologists who
are trying to determine
just how much of an
influence these tribes had
on Egyptian culture at the time.
>> How could this change in
belief systems affect aspects
of ancient Egyptian
life and the afterlife?
>> Egypt is the land
of eternal mystery,
and this is just scientists
chipping away at a lot
of unanswered questions
about Egypt that feed
into the mysteries.
The religious mysteries,
school mysteries
were made up of
these same people
that we're finding
in these tombs.
And so it's important
to everything
that we study about Egypt,
the Egyptian Book of the Dead
and the funerary
practices, which do
seem to have some sort of
spiritual, supernatural aspect
to them.
That all came about through all
of those early interactions.
It could be that this puts
them on the trail of beginning
to understand where the basic
knowledge of Egyptian cosmology
and understanding of the
underworld and of death
actually came from.
>> Some Egyptologists would
have us believe the history
of ancient Egypt
is set in stone.
What can we learn
from these tombs?
>> This finding proves more
than ever that Egyptology is
a completely ongoing,
emerging, evolving science.
And they've seemed
to have only touched
upon all of the finds that
are actually buried there
in the sand, and this is
a perfect example of that.
And this is as big
a discovery as this
is, in the ancient
past of Egypt,
this is yet just one small
piece of the overall puzzle.
>> 110 tombs, 110 people with
their own hopes and dreams.
Some did not spend much
time on this Earth?
Who were these people
and how did they live?
This discovery may
help us reinterpret
ancient Egyptian
history and put together
the pieces of this
ancient puzzle.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.